README.md, before:

# Fake News Detector 📰🔍

Fake news has become a major challenge in the digital era, spreading misinformation rapidly through social media and online platforms. The **Fake News Detector** is a machine learning–based project that classifies news articles as **Real** or **Fake** using Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques.  
This project aims to help users identify misleading information and promote responsible digital awareness.

---

## 🚀 Features
- Text preprocessing (cleaning, tokenization, stopword removal)
- Feature extraction using **TF-IDF**
- Machine learning models for classification
- Predicts whether a news article is **Fake or Real**
- Easy to extend with new datasets or models

---

## 🧠 Technologies Used
- Python
- Scikit-learn
- Pandas
- NumPy
- Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK)
- Jupyter Notebook / Python scripts

---

## 📂 Dataset
The model is trained on a labeled dataset containing:
- **Real news articles**
- **Fake news articles**

> Dataset source can be Kaggle or any publicly available fake news dataset.

---

## ⚙️ Installation & Setup

### 1️⃣ Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/fake-news-detector.git
cd fake-news-detector


2️⃣ Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate   # Linux / Mac
venv\Scripts\activate      # Windows


3️⃣ Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt


▶️ How to Run
## ▶️ How to Run

### 1️⃣ Navigate to the project directory
```bash
cd fake-news-detector


2️⃣ Run the Streamlit application
streamlit run app.py

Commit message:

Add note on model performance and dataset bias
Added a note about model performance on structured articles.

README.md, after:

# Fake News Detector 📰🔍

Fake news has become a major challenge in the digital era, spreading misinformation rapidly through social media and online platforms. The **Fake News Detector** is a machine learning–based project that classifies news articles as **Real** or **Fake** using Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques.  
This project aims to help users identify misleading information and promote responsible digital awareness.

---

## 🚀 Features
- Text preprocessing (cleaning, tokenization, stopword removal)
- Feature extraction using **TF-IDF**
- Machine learning models for classification
- Predicts whether a news article is **Fake or Real**
- Easy to extend with new datasets or models

---

## 🧠 Technologies Used
- Python
- Scikit-learn
- Pandas
- NumPy
- Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK)
- Jupyter Notebook / Python scripts

---

## 📂 Dataset
The model is trained on a labeled dataset containing:
- **Real news articles**
- **Fake news articles**

Note* The model performs best on structured news-style articles and may misclassify short or generic text due to dataset bias.

> Dataset source can be Kaggle or any publicly available fake news dataset.

---

## ⚙️ Installation & Setup

### 1️⃣ Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/fake-news-detector.git
cd fake-news-detector


2️⃣ Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate   # Linux / Mac
venv\Scripts\activate      # Windows


3️⃣ Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt


▶️ How to Run
## ▶️ How to Run

### 1️⃣ Navigate to the project directory
```bash
cd fake-news-detector


2️⃣ Run the Streamlit application
streamlit run app.py
